Introduction
    Context
    Objectives
    Motivation
    Hypothesis (?)
    Hypothesis Validation (?)
    Document structure

Background
    Stream processing as a superset of batch processing
    From unbounded streams to finite data sets
    Aggregations over data
        Sliding Window Aggregations
        Sliding Window Aggregation Algorithms
        Aggregation properties
    Exponential Moving Averages
    Summary

State of the Art
    ... REFACTOR ...

Problem Statement
    Detecting changes in distribution between a reference/static period and the observed data flowing through a stream
    Time constraints (real-time)
    Memory constraints (lightweight)

Lightweight Real-Time Feature Monitoring (my work)
    What we want
        A reference aggregation snapshot to compare with 
        a streaming aggregation that must be kept in real-time and constant in memory usage
    
    Data Mining outlier detection techniques
        - cons: to expensive, relate to SOTA
    
    Sliding Window Aggregations
        - build a aggregation snapshot of the reference and compare with streaming aggregations
        - challenges: 
            generic SWAG algorithms grow linearly in space regarding window size
            defining the set of aggregations that can be done at feature level that represent the current state well enough for comparison and change detection
            defining the threshold of deviation between the reference aggregation values and current streaming aggregations to raise alerts
        - mention challenge 1 can be solved with Probabilistic Data Structures and EMAs
        - there is no trivial solution for the others
            - present an example (2 time-series same max min median and std. but different)

    Numerical feature monitoring: a two-phased method
        - introduce method as two-phased method (batch and streaming)
        
        - what is our goal in the streaming phase?
            - alert when streaming fields/features/variables' distribution changes considerably
            - need to choose an aggregation that allows us to know the distribution of variables -> histogram for each feature
                - lightweight -> approximated EMA-based histogram (recall EMAs background), each bin count is an EMA-count aggregation
                - describe an EMA approximated histogram and how it discounts old events, the simulated window size, ...
            - we can compute an exact histogram over the reference period because it is done in batch, where resources like RAM or time are not heavily constrained in constrast to streaming systems
            - given 2 histograms (ref hist and stream hist) we can apply distance metrics (such as a JSD)
                - worth mentioning other metrics can be used (Wasserstein distance, Kolmogorov–Smirnov, ...)
            - but how to threshold this "distance" value? ----> we need to know the distribution of "distance" values
                - how is this accomplished
                - agressive sampling within ref period of smaller periods (equal in size to the stream simulated window)
                - give a practical use-case where it makes a diference:
                    - left-skewed distro vs right-skewed distro ---> threshold is very different (95 or 99 percentile for example)

        - batch phase: build reference exact histogram and distribution of distance values
            1. compute ref histogram (for each feature)
                - equal heights/counts per bin, different size bins ---> better adjusted to wildly varying distributions
            2. make samples of length equal to streaming window size, build histograms for each using bins from reference histogram to make later accurate comparisons between ref hist and sample hist
                - why multiple sample histograms?
                    encode distributions over smaller time periods since there may be pattern changes within the large reference period
                - why an approximated histogram for the samples as well despite being done in batch?
                    mimic the streaming approximated histogram and the test that will be performed:
                        - batch: sample app. histogram vs ref hist
                        - stream: streaming app. histogram vs ref hist
            3. compute the distance between each sample's histogram and the reference one (for each feature)
            4. we now have a list of distance values, and know their expected distribution (for each feature)
                - this is important since a test value obtained measuring the distance between the reference period and other window
                can be compared to this distribution (again probably give the left and right skewed example)

            By the end of the batch phase we have:
                for each feature:
                    reference histogram (for later comparison with streaming histogram)
                    list/histogram of distance values
                    last sample's histogram ---> used as burn-in period for target histogram

        - online phase:
            for each feature:
                1. initialize the streaming histogram as the last sample's histogram from the batch phase (burn-in period)
            
            for each event:
                for each field/feature:
                    1. update the feature's streaming histogram (recall the update method)
                    2. compute the distance between the reference histogram and the target histogram
                    3. test the percentile the distance value fits according to the feature's distances list and alert if above a certain percentile (say the 99th)

            introduce the multiple testing correction problem:
                "the more inferences are made, the more likely erroneous inferences are to occur"
                we are making multiple hypothesis testing when computing a distance and checking the percentile for each feature

                introduce the Holm-Bonferroni multiple test correction method
            
            So in reality we have:

            for each event:
                for each field/feature:
                    1. update the feature's streaming histogram (recall the update method)
                    2. compute the distance between the reference histogram and the target histogram
                    3. apply holm-bonferroni for all feature's distances:
                        - each percentile will be a p-value
                        - order features by p-value
                        - check if p-value > FWER / (m + 1 - k)
                            if so then feature is divergent

    Summary
    

Implementation Details
...
    Summary

Method validation
    Data sets
        Synthetic data set description
        Real data set from financial fraud space(anonymized)

    Tests description
        Single feature
        Multi feature

    Test results
        Data Science perspective
            Single feature
            Multi feature
        Engineering perspective

    Conclusions

Conclusions
    Hypothesis Summary
    Answer each RQ
    Contributions
    Future work
    Epilogue
